Congratulations! You have completed this module. At this point in the course, you know the following: 

The reward function provides human feedback for the inserted query.

Rollouts help queries and responses to review the sampling process. The rollout libraries, such as Hugging Face, differ from the reinforcement learning.

The expected rewards use an empirical formula to understand how an agent performs in the language model.

Reinforcement learning from human feedback (RLHF) uses response distribution as an input query to fine-tune the pre-trained LLMs.

Pre-trained reward model evaluates and generates a reward for the query plus response.

Proximal policy optimization (PPO) provides feedback on the quality of actions taken by the policy.

The sentiment analysis pipeline scores evaluate the generated responses' quality. Pipe_outputs list generates scores for the responses.

The LengthSampler varies text lengths for data processing, enhances model robustness, and simulates realistic training conditions.

The sample query questions may provide various random responses based on the probability distribution. 

The transformer model generates probabilities for different words using the softmax function. 

You can select words at various timestamps and change the probabilities for those words.

The generation parameters, such as temperature, top-k sampling, beam search, top-p sampling, repetition penalty, and max and min tokens, help change the sequences generated using LLMs.

Objective functions coordinate algorithms and data to reveal patterns, trends, and insights to produce accurate predictions.
They measure the difference between an ML model’s predicted outcomes and target values.

The Kullback-Leibler, or KL, divergence measures the difference between two probability distributions, the desired and the arbitrary policy.

The optimal solution scales the reference model to the reward function, with the beta parameter controlling the constant.

Following the policy distribution, the language model generates responses based on the inserted query.

The policy gradient method maximizes the objective function, and PPO helps to achieve this maximization.

To optimize the policy, derive the sample response, estimate the reward, and extend the dataset.

You can calculate the log derivative by identifying a policy that maximizes the objective function by simplifying the expression and converting it into analytical distributions. 

Use a toy gradient ascent example using stochastic gradient ascent or SGA to maximize the objective function compared to a standard optimization problem with maximum likelihood.

A positive update occurs when a reward is positive, and a negative update occurs when a reward is negative.

To train the model, regularly evaluate it using human feedback, use the moderate beta value, and increase the temperature.
