Congratulations! You have completed this lesson. At this point in the course, you know that:

One-hot encoding converts categorical data into feature vectors. 

The bag-of-words representation portrays a document as the aggregate or average of one-hot encoded vectors. 

When you feed a bag-of-words vector to a neural network's hidden layer, the output is the sum of the embeddings. 

The Embedding and EmbeddingBag classes are used to implement embedding and embedding bags in PyTorch.

A document classifier seamlessly categorizes articles by analyzing the text content.

A neural network is a mathematical function consisting of a sequence of matrix multiplications with a variety of other functions.

The Argmax function identifies the index of the highest logit value, corresponding to the most likely class. 

Hyperparameters are externally set configurations of a neural network.

The prediction function works on real text that starts by taking in tokenized text. It processes the text through the pipeline, and the model predicts the category.

A neural network functions via matrix and vector operations, called learnable parameters.

In neural network training, learnable parameters are fine-tuned to enhance model performance. This process is steered by the loss function, which serves as a measure of accuracy.

The prediction function works on real text that starts by taking in tokenized text. It processes the text through the pipeline, and the model predicts the category.

Cross-entropy is used to find the best parameters.

For unknown distribution, estimate it by averaging the function applied to a set of samples. This technique is known as Monte Carlo sampling.

Optimization is used to minimize the loss.

Generally, the data set should be partitioned into three subsets: training data for learning, validation data for hyperparameter tuning, and test data to evaluate real-world performance.

The training data is split into training and validation, and then data loaders are set up for training, validation, and testing. 

Batch size specifies the sample count for gradient approximation, and shuffling the data promotes better optimization.

When you define your model, init_weights helps with optimization.

To train your loop:

Iterate over each epoch

Set the model to training mode

Calculate the total loss

Divide the data set into batches

Perform gradient descent

Update the loss after each batch is processed
