Congratulations! You have completed this module. At this point in the course, you know: 

1. Instruction-tuning involves training models with expert-curated datasets.
2. For instruction-tuning, the model requires instructions and answers.
3. Instruction-tuning helps perform a wide variety of tasks by interpreting and executing instructions more effectively.
4. Instruction-tuning uses three components: Instructions, input, and output.
5. Adjust the prompt format to maintain compatibility with the different models’ tokenizers.
6. Instruction masking focuses on the loss calculation of specific tokens.
7. Load a dataset using CodeAlpaca 20k dataset.
8. Format the dataset using the formating_prompts_func function.
9. For creating a formatted dataset, use two code blocks for generating instructions with and without responses.
10. To create a model, fine-tune Facebook’s opt-350m model.
11. Define the collator using DataCollatorForCompletionOnlyLM to prepare data batches for training language models.
12. Define the trainer by creating the SFTTrainer object.
13. Generate a text pipeline from the Transformers library.
14. Evaluate the model’s text generation using the BLEU score.
15. The reward model takes prompt as an input and response as an output regarding reward or score.
16. Reward modeling helps in quantifying quality responses, guiding model optimization, incorporating reward preferences, and ensuring consistency and reliability of the responses. 
17. The scoring function takes the query and appends the chatbot’s responses. 
18. The dataset synthetic-instruct-gptj-pairwise from Hugging Face trains and evaluates instruction-following models. 
19. Defining the preprocess_function() helps format the keys and tokenize the data for the reward trainer.
20. TrainingArguments class from the Transformers library defines the training arguments.
21. Reward trainers orchestrate the process and save and evaluate the model using the trainer.train() method.
22. The tokenizing process generates scores and compares the output of two functions to achieve the desired win rate.
23. Reward model training is an advanced technique that trains a model to identify desired outputs generated by another model and assign scores to the outcome based on its relevance and accuracy.
24. Training the scoring function helps generate rewards effectively.
25. Generating reward model loss, the encoder model generates responses as contextual embeddings.
26. Using the Bradley–Terry reward loss model, you can understand the reward loss model by generating the cost or loss function.
